<!-- Autogenerated by mlir-tblgen; don't manually edit -->

### `-mpmd-copy-topology-from-main`

_Copies the topology from the main function to functions referred by mpmd.call._

Copies the topology attribute from the main function to any function
referred by a mpmd.call. This also sets the mpmd.call callee to private
visibility, to avoid being mistaken for an entry point function.

### `-mpmd-enforce-input-output-equisharding`

_Enforces equisharding constraints for MPMD functions._

Enforces input-output equisharding constraints for MPMD functions by
introducing TransferOps when necessary.

#### Options

```
-constraints : A list of constraint, each enforcing that an input and output should be assigned to the same mesh.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-assign-mesh-func-leaves`

_Assigns a mesh to each unused computation, function output, and function input using the use_set and src_set analysis._

This pass assigns meshes to the func body leaves (i.e., the results of unused
computations, unused function arguments, and function outputs) by creating
AssignOps or changing the type, using the use_set and src_set information.

We also treat certain intermediate values as leaves, for the sake of
analysis. Namely: the operands of an mpmd.reduce and mpmd.broadcast are
treated as leaves and an assign-unassign pair will be created on them.

This assignment will clear the use_set of all non-leaf ops, as the previously
annotated uses will be stale since inferring reduce ops will change the
use_set of some values: the initial use_set propagation is unaware of reduce
ops, but now that we've inferred reduce ops, the propagation will be
different.

This pass will fail, emitting errors, if use- and src-sets aren't correctly
populated for leaf ops.

Pre-condition: every op has a non-empty src-set, or we infer transfers.

#### Options

```
-infer-transfers : Whether to create transfers when needed, instead of erroring.
-error-limit     : The number of errors to emit. Set to -1 to emit all errors. Cannot be 0.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-assign-using-input-output-constraints`

_Assigns a mesh to the inputs and outputs according to the input-output assignment constraints._

This pass uses the input-output equi-assignment constraints to assign both
the input and output to the same mesh.

Note that this guarantees the input is on the same mesh, regardless of
whether it is subsequently transferred to other meshes. But this means that
we should not run `populate-src-set` after this pass.

*Requires:*
  * for any input `i` of the entry-point function that may be part of an
  equi-assignment constraint: `i` has a MeshTensorType, OR a well-defined
  use-set.
  * for any output `o` of the entry-point function that may be part of an
  equi-assignment constraint: `o` has type MeshTensorType, OR well-defined
  src- and use- sets.

Where a well-defined use-set of a value includes all the meshes the value is
(transitively) assigned to, via mpmd.assign ops and no other mesh. A
well-defined src-set includes all the meshes where the tensor is allowed to
live and no other mesh..

Although this only runs on entry point functions, we make this a module op
pass because this requires all passes on existing functions to complete
before it runs. E.g. if we make this an `EntryPointFunctionPass` then the
pass manager might run this pass before validation completes on the non-entry
point functions.

#### Options

```
-verbose-logging : Whether to enable verbose logging
-constraints     : A list of constraint, each enforcing that an input and output should be assigned to the same mesh.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-convert-reduce-ops`

_Converts annotated reduce ops to mpmd.reduce ops and flattens chains of reduce ops._

Converts the annotated reduce ops to mpmd.reduce ops, and also flattens
chains of these reduce ops.

In symbols:

x = add(w0, w1) {mpmd.reduce = #mpmd.reduce<add>}
y = add(x, w2) {mpmd.reduce = #mpmd.reduce<add>}
  ~~>
r = mpmd.reduce<add>(w0,w1,w2)

#### Options

```
-infer-cross-mesh-reductions : Whether to infer cross-mesh reductions. Will be enabled by default once stable.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-finalize`

_Applies final clean up after patterns mesh inference._

#### Options

```
-infer-transfers : Whether to create transfers when needed, instead of erroring.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-populate-src-set`

_Initializes the src_set for UnassignOps and func args and propagates the src_set._

This pass initializes the src_set and propagates it, populating the graph
with the src_set info.

Pre-condition: for func args to have src_sets, the use_set must be populated.

Initialization: the src_set of an UnassignOp is set to the mesh that it
assigns to. The src_set of a func arg is set to its use_set.

Propagation: src_sets propagate forwards from operands to the op itself,
taking the intersection of operands. See `PropagateSrcSet` for details.

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-populate-use-set`

_Initializes the use_set for AssignOps and propagates the use_set._

This pass initializes the use_set and propagates it backwards, populating the
graph with the use_set info.

Initialization: the use_set of an AssignOp is set to the mesh that it
assigns to.

Propagation: use_sets propagate backwards from users to the op itself, taking
the union of users. An op's use_set is the union of its users' use_sets by
definition, since the use_set is the set of transitive uses.

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-rewrite-using-analysis`

_Rewrites ops according to the use_set._

This pass assigns meshless ops by wrapping them in fragments, using the
use_set and src_set analyses.

It also removes the use_set and src_set attributes as part of clean up, since
the analyses are no longer needed after this.

Pre-condition: every op has a use_set, i.e. analysis is complete.
Pre-condition: every argument of a non-entry point function is used at least
by one non-terminator op.

TODO: jupvfranco - consider renaming this pass given that it doesn't depend
on the analysis so much anymore.

#### Options

```
-max-clones : How many copies of a meshless operation we allow. Setting it to 1 means we never clone the op.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-validate-no-additional-transfers-needed`

_Validates no additional transfers are needed for mesh assignment._

This pass validates that mesh assignment is possible for all meshless ops
without introducing any additional transfers.

For meshless ops which aren't func ops, it errors when:
1. use_set is not contained in the src_set for a given op, i.e. a transfer
is needed.

For func ops, it suffices to check the above conditions for the func args,
since the func returns either meshless ops, or block args.

#### Options

```
-error-limit : The number of errors to emit. Set to -1 to emit all errors. Cannot be 0.
```

### `-mpmd-infer-mesh-validate-src-set-not-empty`

_Validates that every meshless op has a non-empty src_set._

This pass validates all meshless ops, checking that the op can be assigned
somewhere. I.e. for meshless ops which aren't func ops, it errors when the
src_set is empty on an op or if it was inferred to be a cross-mesh reduction
but it is not converted. This is a prerequisite for func leaves assignment.

For func ops, it suffices to check the above conditions for the func args,
since the func returns either meshless ops, or block args.

This needs to be a pass on the module level, since in the case of an error
on the callee, we want to print the callers.

Pre-condition: cross-mesh reductions should be converted to reduce ops before
this pass is run.

#### Options

```
-error-limit : The number of errors to emit. Set to -1 to emit all errors. Cannot be 0.
```

### `-mpmd-inline-nested-user-exposed-ops`

_Inlines any user-exposed mpmd op nested in a named_computation._

Inlines any named_computation, named_tensor, broadcast and reduce op that is
nested in a named_computation, checking that its mesh assignment (when
defined) matches that of the parent.

#### Options

```
-assignment : Mapping between names (of computations and tensors) and mesh names, and optionally stage ids. E.g., 'n0@m0,n1@m1' defines that names n0 and n1 will be assigned to meshes m0 and m1, respectively. Alternatively 'n0@m0/0,n1@m1/1' means that these names are also assigned to the stages 0 and 1.
```

### `-mpmd-insert-nameless-clone-of-negligible-ops`

_Clones negligible ops outside of named computations._

Clones negligible operations, i.e., single result, zero operand operations,
outside named computations whenever they are used by the computation's
return op, replacing the named_computation's result with the clone. This is
needed because if such results are used by named computations assigned to
different meshes, this could cause a mesh inference conflict. By applying
this pass, we allow mesh inference to clone these negligible ops.

This pass does NOT change the named computation at all.

### `-mpmd-introduce-transfers`

_Creates data transfers based on user mesh assignments._

Creates a pass that introduces transfer operations based on user mesh
assignments. This includes:

1. Push in UnassignOp to mpmd calls if the result of UnassignOp is later
   assigned in the callee.
2. Replaces the AssignOp of an UnassignOp with a TransferOp.
3. Assign the addition to the consuming mesh and introduce a transfer if
   there is a meshless addition between fragments.

### `-mpmd-map-input-output-to-mesh`

_Assigns meshes to function inputs and output._

Creates a pass that maps function inputs/outputs to meshes given a
user-defined mesh assignment.

For the input arguments, this pass:
1. Casts the input tensors that should be put on a mesh to a mesh
   tensor.
2. Updates the function signature.
3. Adds mpmd.unassign before the tensor is used.

For the output arguments, this pass adds mpmd.assign before the tensor
is returned and updates the function signature.

Requires: Each input/output index is valid and each mapped mesh
is a valid mesh in the topology.

#### Options

```
-input-assignment  : Mapping between function input indices and assigned mesh names.E.g., '0@m0,1@m1' defines that input with index 0 will be assigned to mesh m0 and input with index 1 will be assigned to mesh m1.
-output-assignment : Mapping between function output indices and assigned mesh names.E.g., '0@m0,1@m1' defines that output with index 0 will be assigned to mesh m0 and output with index 1 will be assigned to mesh m1.
```

### `-mpmd-map-named-ops-to-mpmd-ops`

_Assigns meshes to user defined operations._

Creates a pass optionally assigning mpmd.named_tensor to
Assign(Unassign(%v)) (depends if there is an entry in `assignment`), and to
map each named_computation to a mesh, using a user-defined mapping between
named_computations and mesh names. This means replacing each
named_computation with a Fragment and creating AssignOps for the operands
and UnassignOps for the results of these Fragments. The now introduced
pattern Assign(Unassign(%v)) is rewritten into a Transfer(%v).
No named_computation/named_tensor ops will exist after this pass.

Requires: all named_computations and named_tensors to live at the top-level
of the function.

#### Options

```
-assignment : Mapping between names (of computations and tensors) and mesh names, and optionally stage ids. E.g., 'n0@m0,n1@m1' defines that names n0 and n1 will be assigned to meshes m0 and m1, respectively. Alternatively 'n0@m0/0,n1@m1/1' means that these names are also assigned to the stages 0 and 1.
```

### `-mpmd-simplify-named-computations`

_Simplifies the inputs and outputs of named computation ops._

Simplifies each named computation independently. In particular, it:
- deduplicates results, and their corresponding return values;
- deduplicates operands, and their corresponding block arguments;
- removes results whose corresponding return operand is a block
  argument of the op;
- removes operands whose corresponding block argument has no more uses (or
  didn't have any to begin with); and
- removes results that are unused.
- replaces the pattern `arg -> stablehlo.optimization_barrier -> return`
  within a named computation with the pattern `arg -> return`, allowing
  further simplification.

### `-mpmd-validate-named-ops-in-mpmd-func`

_Validates that named ops are only nested in mpmd functions._

Validates that NamedComputationOp and NamedTensorOp are only nested in
mpmd functions, i.e., functions with a topology attr.
