<!-- Autogenerated by mlir-tblgen; don't manually edit -->
# OpInterface definitions
## CollectiveOpInterface (`Sdy_CollectiveOpInterface`)

Interface for all collective ops. Encapsulates common get/set for
outSharding attribute.

**Constraints:**
- Operand must have a sharding.
- `out_sharding` is valid w.r.t the corresponding type.
- MeshAttr of result and operand is the same.
- Same rank for the operand and result sharding.

### Methods:
#### `getOutSharding`

```c++
::mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr getOutSharding();
```
Returns the output tensor sharding of the collective op.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `setOutShardingAttr`

```c++
void setOutShardingAttr(::mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr sharding);
```
Sets the output tensor sharding of the collective op.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getTensor`

```c++
::mlir::TypedValue<::mlir::TensorType> getTensor();
```
Get the tensor operand of the collective op.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getType`

```c++
::mlir::Type getType();
```
Get the type of the collective op result.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

## ShardableDataFlowOpInterface (`Sdy_ShardableDataFlowOpInterface`)

An op interface that allows shardy to propagate shardings through data flow
edges of ops that extend this interface.

A data flow edge of some op X defines a bridge between a set of sources
(each is either an operand of X or an operand of X's block terminator) and
a set of targets (each is either a result of X or a block argument of X),
such that all sources and targets should be sharded in the same way.
An op can have multiple data flow edges that are orthogonal to one another.

An owner is a user specified target of the data flow edge used by shardy's
propagation. The user can choose it arbitrarily but it needs to be static.

For example:

```mlir
  y_1, ..., y_n = custom_op (x_1, ..., x_n)
                  ((body_arg_1,..., body_arg_n) {
                    ...
                    return return_value_1, ..., return_value_n
                  })
```
This custom_op has two types for data flow edges, n edges each between
`return_value_i` (sources) and `y_i` (targets) and n edges between
`x_i`(sources) and `body_arg_i`(targets). In this case the edge owners are
the same as the targets.

Here is an example of an op with multiple targets:
```mlir
  y_0, ..., y_n = while (x_0, ..., x_n)
                  ((pred_arg_0,... , pred_arg_n) { ... })
                  ((body_arg_0,..., body_arg_n) {
                    ...
                    return return_value_0, ..., return_value_n
                  })
```

This while op has n data flow edges, the i-th data flow edges is between
sources `x_i`, `return_value_i` and targets `y_i`, `pred_arg_i`,
`body_arg_i`.

### Methods:
#### `getBlockArgumentEdgeOwnerShardings`

```c++
mlir::SmallVector<mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr> getBlockArgumentEdgeOwnerShardings();
```
Returns the shardings of all block argument data flow edge owners.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `setBlockArgumentEdgeOwnerShardings`

```c++
void setBlockArgumentEdgeOwnerShardings(mlir::ArrayRef<mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr> shardings);
```
Sets `shardings` of all block argument edge owners.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getOpResultEdgeOwnerShardings`

```c++
mlir::SmallVector<mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr> getOpResultEdgeOwnerShardings();
```
Returns the shardings of all op result data flow edge owners.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `setOpResultEdgeOwnerShardings`

```c++
void setOpResultEdgeOwnerShardings(mlir::ArrayRef<mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr> shardings);
```
Sets `shardings` of all op result edge owners.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `transformTargetSharding`

```c++
mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr transformTargetSharding(mlir::Value target, mlir::sdy::TensorShardingAttr sharding, mlir::sdy::DataFlowShardingTransformType transformType);
```
Transforms the `sharding` of the target depending on `transformType`

See `DataFlowShardingTransformType` for more information.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getBlockArgumentEdgeOwners`

```c++
mlir::ArrayRef<mlir::BlockArgument> getBlockArgumentEdgeOwners();
```
Gets all block argument edge owners.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getOpResultEdgeOwners`

```c++
mlir::ResultRange getOpResultEdgeOwners();
```
Gets all op result edge owners.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getEdgeSources`

```c++
mlir::SmallVector<mlir::Value> getEdgeSources(mlir::Value owner);
```
Gets the data flow edge sources given the edge `owner`.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getEdgeOwnerFromTarget`

```c++
mlir::Value getEdgeOwnerFromTarget(mlir::Value target);
```
Gets the owner `target` of a data flow edge given a `target` that may or
may not be the owner.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getEdgeOwnerFromSource`

```c++
mlir::Value getEdgeOwnerFromSource(mlir::OpOperand&source);
```
Gets the owner target of a data flow edge given a `source`.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

#### `getNonEdgeOwnerTargets`

```c++
mlir::SmallVector<mlir::Value> getNonEdgeOwnerTargets(mlir::Value owner);
```
Gets the non-owner targets of a data flow edge given the edge `owner`.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

## ShardingRuleOpInterface (`Sdy_ShardingRuleOpInterface`)

An op interface that allows the op to define its own sharding rule.
A sharding rule specifies how an operation can be partitioned according to
various properties on the op - any attributes, the shape of operands,
the shape of the results, etc. See `OpShardingRuleAttr` for more
details.

### Methods:
#### `getShardingRule`

```c++
mlir::sdy::OpShardingRuleAttr getShardingRule();
```
Returns the sharding rule of the op.

NOTE: This method *must* be implemented by the user.

